Alright, we're going to go
ahead and jump in today.
So, we're super excited about today.
We get the opportunity to...
Uh, start a new series, which I
may be crazy for starting on a
holiday weekend, start a new series.
But I'm going to start a new series
and then, uh, those who miss it
will have to go back and catch up.
So you guys are lucky you
get to be here on day one.
Uh, before I continue to talk
about that series, I'm going
to pass around something.
I figured out this is
the best way to do it.
So we are doing something
called a Fall Fun Fest.
If you were with us last year, we did this
in partnership with Riverview Elementary.
Um, it was a great event, we had over 700
people show up, um, they loved it so much
that they requested, they like begged
us, will you come back and do this again?
So that's awesome.
Uh, so we're going to be doing
it on a Tuesday night, September
19th, um, and we need to know if
you can help us, it'll be from 5.
30pm, and the greatest way for
you to tell us that you can help
is by putting your name down.
Um, and so I'm just going to
start this around over here.
You guys can just help it get around
to every person, and when it gets
done, you can just end it somewhere up
here on the front, and I'll grab it.
Um, but please, please, please, if
you have the ability to come out and
serve, even if it's an hour, and help
us put this on, uh, we would love it.
So what you do is just put your name
down, then we'll reach out to you and
let you know what we need help with.
We'll have cook food, to popcorn, to
wash inflatables, to help face paint,
to put on games and activities, but
it's a great way to serve our community.
Um, so I'd love for you to
sign up and be a part of that.
Um, but today we're starting a
new series in the book of Genesis.
And if you're wondering, are we
going to go through the whole
book of Genesis before we stop?
No, we're actually going to cover the
first 11 chapters of Genesis between
now and the end of the year, which
may even still seem like a daunting
task and a little bit of it really is.
Um, but we're going to start
with the first 11 chapters.
We'll take a little bit of a break,
um, and do a few other series,
um, at the beginning of next year.
We'll jump back in and
cover some more of Genesis.
Eventually, over the next year and
a half, my hope is that we finish.
The whole book of Genesis.
And so I hope this is
very informational to you.
Um, it's one that has been
on my heart for a while.
If you've talked to me at
all, you've probably heard me
talk about this in January.
It is now September.
It's taken me that long to convince
myself that we can do this.
We can go through the book of Genesis.
And so, um, I have found as I've been
studying, because it has taken me that
much time, Uh, that there is a multiple
ways to preach the book of Genesis.
There's some people...
There's some people that will
preach through it in one sermon.
There's some people that
will preach through chapter
one over a six week series.
Um, so you can tell there's a
variety of ways to dive into the
book of Genesis and really understand
basically the way to go through it.
And so I just came to a
couple of conclusions.
I don't want to share these with you.
Finally I came to the
conclusion on a few things.
Number one, I do not, nor you
do not, have as much time.
As it takes to cover every single
detail of every single verse in the
theme of Genesis, we just don't.
Um, and so because of that, we're
gonna take a different route.
Um, and so I also learned that as a
pastor of a church, in a church plant,
in the multiple roles I play, you
probably don't want me spending 30
to 40 hours a week just to give you
a verse by verse breakdown so that we
can cover every aspect of 6 to 8 years.
Um, so I figured valuing
my time, your time.
And looking really at the key
idea of why was this book wrote
is probably a better route to go.
Um, and so we're going
to really focus on this.
Transformation over information.
And so what I mean by this, we're going
to learn a lot of information today.
You're probably going to leave
here going, ah, I learned something
new about chapter one of Genesis.
Um, but what I would say is that
information that we gain really needs
to be turned into transformation.
And if we're only focusing on information,
it will add no value to our lives.
So that's kind of how we're
looking at this book today.
Um, because I really wanna set us up well.
Um, and I know how gifted,
I'm not in a lot of areas.
Um, I go to other resources and if
anybody heard of the Bible Project.
Okay.
A couple of you.
Well, today I'm gonna start off with
the video from the Bible Project
a little longer than what I would
typically show you in a sermon,
but I think this will help you.
and me be ready for Genesis as
a whole, but really even just
this first chapter in Genesis.
So we're going to dive into this, watch
this video, once it gets done, I'm
going to jump up and we're going to walk
through the first chapter of Genesis.
So let's go.
The first book in the Bible is called
Genesis, and we're going to look closely
at the first page of the book of Genesis.
It's a carefully crafted
narrative about God creating
and ordering the whole cosmos.
Okay, let's check it out.
Now, the opening line of the whole
Bible is, In the beginning, God
created the skies and the land.
Now, your Bible translation might
say, The heavens and the earth.
In Biblical Hebrew, the word for
heaven refers simply to the sky above.
And the word for earth does not
mean globe, but rather, the land.
The ground below us.
Right.
This line is summarizing what's going
to happen in the following narrative,
which starts in the next line.
And it reads, Now the
land was wild and waste.
This phrase rhymes in Hebrew.
The land was tohu vavohu, which
means unordered and uninhabited.
This is the ancient way of talking
about the pre creation state.
What we might call nothingness.
For the biblical authors, non existence
means having no purpose and no order.
And the next line uses another
image to say the same thing.
And darkness was on the
face of the deep abyss.
What's the deep abyss?
Yeah, it's a dark, chaotic ocean.
It's another common way the
ancients described the non
reality that preceded creation.
Now, here's where things start to get
interesting, because in the midst of
those dark waters, God is present.
And the Spirit of God was hovering
over the face of the waters.
The Hebrew word for God's spirit is
ruach, which can refer to wind, or
breath, or God's invisible presence.
So you can't see it, but God is
present, in the darkness, ready to
bring order, so that life can flourish.
Yes, and this ordering
happens in a series.
Each day begins with the
phrase, and God said.
And then ends with the phrase,
and there was evening and morning.
Yeah, every day addresses those
problems introduced in verse two.
That there's no order, and no inhabitants.
So, on days one through three,
God splits apart that unordered
darkness into three ordered realms.
Then, on days four through six, God fills
the uninhabited wasteland with creatures.
Interesting.
Let's see how that works.
Okay.
So, the first realm of order
begins with light on day one.
Ah, yes.
Let there be light.
This is God's own glorious...
Okay, and then on day two, let
there be a vault between the waters
to separate water from water.
What's the fault?
In the ancient culture of the biblical
authors, the sky was perceived as a
solid dome that holds back waters.
God's depicted here as splitting
the chaos waters in half, above
and below, which creates the
realms of the sky and the seas.
And then on day three, let the waters
under the sky be gathered into one
place and let dry ground appear.
God is establishing the realm of the land,
and it emerges out of the chaotic waters.
And then there's a bonus
creative act on day three.
God invites plants and fruit trees
with seed to emerge out of the land.
Okay, so we've got the realms
of time, the realm of the sky
and the seas, and the land.
And they all have order.
Right.
Now, it's time to go back and
fill these realms of days 1
through 3 with inhabitants.
This is what happens on days 4 through 6.
So on day 4, let there be
lights in the vaults of the sky.
God installs these lights, the
sun, moon, and stars, as signs and
symbols that reflect God's own light.
He gives them his own royal
power to separate day and night.
Then on day five, let the waters
swarm with living creatures, and
let birds fly above the land.
Yeah, these are the creatures that
live in the waters below, and those
that fly near the waters above.
Then finally on day six, Let the
land produce living creatures.
They emerge out of the
ground to live on the land.
And then, matching that bonus act of
creation on Day 3, God makes a special
land creature, human, or in Hebrew, Adam.
Then, God provides all of those
plants from Day 3 as abundant food.
Now, over and over, God says
what he created was good.
But then, after making humans,
God says that it is very good.
Yes.
Humanity is the climax of days one
through six, and their importance is
explained in the first poem in the Bible.
So God created humanity in his own image.
In the image of God, he created them.
Male and female, he created them.
So, humans come up from the ground,
like the other land creatures.
But they're also born.
They're God's image.
Which means that, together, men
and women embody and represent
the creator within his creation.
God blessed them, and said, Be fruitful,
and increase in number, fill the earth,
and soon do it, ruling over the creatures.
This is the purpose of being God's image.
To oversee creation as God's
partners and representatives.
The world.
Very cool.
Now, after the six days, we get a
concluding line that links back to
the keywords of the opening line,
and so we're completed the skies and
the land and all their inhabitants,
except there's one more day.
It stands outside the pattern
of days one through six.
It's the big climax, and God completed
on the seventh day, the work which he
had done, and he rested on the seventh.
day from all the work which he had
done, and God blessed the seventh
day, and set it apart as holy.
So God rests on the seventh day.
This is a standard biblical image where
God, after ordering the cosmos, comes
to rest and dwell in his sacred space.
It's like the whole world is a holy
temple where God lives with his people.
Now that phrase, there was evening and
morning, it doesn't appear on day seven.
That's right.
The seventh day has no end.
That's because Genesis 1 is describing
God's ideal vision for the whole cosmos.
A place where God lives with his partners
to rule the world in harmony forever.
Yes, the seventh day is
the goal of creation.
It's actually so important that the
author of Genesis 1 has woven the number
seven into every part of the story.
There are seven days of creation.
Seven announcements that creation is good.
There are seven Hebrew words in the
opening verse, and then two times
seven Hebrew words in verse two.
And then, the statement about the seventh
day has three lines of seven words.
Wow.
So, the first page of the Bible
is doing way more than just
telling us how the world was made.
Right.
Genesis 1 has been designed to
show us that God's purpose is to
share creation with His images.
So they can rest and
rule it with him forever.
And that purpose is what the rest
of the biblical drama is all about.
Alright, so you may be wondering why
am I even preaching if I just showed
you the whole story of chapter one.
Here's what I know.
Number one, um, the
repetition is important.
I think we'll draw on a couple
of different things as we
walk through this as well.
Uh, but there's something about that
visual element when I've watched this
video that I, whenever I watch it, I was
like, man, this is so valuable for me.
And then I'm like, why would I withhold
that from our church to be able to see
that before we really dive into this?
And so there's, there's a lot
that has to deal with Genesis 1.
Um, and we're not going to actually
deal with the seventh day because the
seventh day actually starts in Genesis 2.
We're actually going to take a whole week
and talk about that day of rest next week.
Um, and so come ready for that.
And so, as we dive into this,
I'm not going to just read
all the way through chapter 1.
We're actually just going to do
it as I'm preaching through this
to make it a little bit simpler.
But I want to give a little bit of the
background when we think about this book.
Um, when we look at this book, Um,
many scholars believe that Moses
is the one that wrote this book.
And so if you, uh, know a little
bit about, uh, the, the books, the
Bible, the first five books, the
Bible are called the Law or the Torah.
Some call it the Pentateuch, which
is a weird, really weird name.
But basically it's the first five books
that most believe and attribute Moses
as the one that writes these books.
Um, and Moses is from Exodus.
If you guys remember, he helped, um, the
Israelites lead Egypt out of slavery,
and that's the second book of the Bible.
And so many believe.
That Moses is the one that would have
wrote this book in order to help the
people of Israel remember who created
them and what they were created for.
Um, and when we really even dive a
little bit deeper into that idea of who
created them and what they were created
for, I think that's a question that
people are asking in today's society.
I think those are questions that we're
asking at times about why we were
created and who truly created us.
What's our purpose?
And so I think that this is really
important to go to that idea, that idea
of why Moses would have wrote this book.
And so some ask this question, well,
how did Moses, if Moses wasn't there
in the beginning, how did Moses know?
What to write?
What was there?
And so, there's a couple
of different ways.
Now, some would say that it's
by revelation of God that
he had given him the wisdom.
Um, and speaking it to him
in some form or fashion.
Some would say also it would be passed
down from generation to generation.
I don't care where you land, we
got the book of Genesis and we got
it, um, most likely from Moses.
Um, and so we're gonna kinda
walk through this in that light.
Right, that light of understanding.
of who created us and the world that we
live in and what were we created for.
So the first two verses is what
we'll kind of focus on right now.
It says, In the beginning God created
the heavens and the earth, and now
the earth was formless and empty, and
darkness covered the surface of the
watery depths, and the Spirit of God was
hovering over the surface of the waters.
And so when we look at this, I
believe that verse number one
is a key verse in our lives.
Here's why I believe it is.
If we can't believe verse 1 of
the Bible, then we really can't
believe the rest of the Bible.
Now, I'm going to say that again.
If we can't believe verse 1 of the
Bible, we cannot believe the rest
of the Bible, which means this.
In the beginning, God created.
And you know, in society, we
deal with this struggle honestly.
If your kids are in school, they will be
taught something completely different.
That God created.
Uh, and, and I'm not here necessarily
to wrestle through that today, but I
do believe that if we can't believe
that God created, we probably can't
believe anything else in the Word.
And that's a struggle at times for
some of us, because there's some verses
that we go, it just doesn't make sense.
And I will just tell you this, there's
a lot of things that we will not fully
understand this side of Heaven, but I
believe when we look at this verse, in
the beginning, God created is the most
important verse that we believe first.
And if we don't believe that
first, the question is...
At what point in the Bible
do you begin believing?
Which means this, at what point
in the Bible are we going to take
out before we start believing?
And that is a tough question to ask.
And so by faith, because none
of us were there, we believe
that God created the earth.
And so we can't pick and choose.
And I really want to read this briefly,
I'm going to try to be brief as I can.
Um, there's a reason why I would say we...
We shouldn't question God on
creation, and Job went through
this, as many people may be familiar
with the story or the book of Job.
Job had kind of questioned God and
what God was doing, and here's what God
said to Job in his questioning of him.
And I'm just going to read this, this
is not going to be up on your screen,
but I'm just going to read verses, uh,
it's from Job 38, verses 4 through 18.
And this is God speaking to Job, and
this is what he said, Where were you,
Job, when I established the earth?
He says, tell me if you have
understanding, who fixed its dimensions.
Certainly, you know, Joe, who stretched
out the measuring line across it, what
supports its foundation or who laid its
cornerstone while the morning star stars
sing together and all the sons of God
shouted for joy, who enclosed the sea
behind the doors and when it burst from
the womb and when I made the clouds, its
garment and total darkness in its blanket.
When I determined its boundaries and
put its bars and doors in place, when
I declared you may come this far but
no further, you proud waves stop here.
Have you ever in your life commanded the
morning or assigned the dawn its place
so that it may seize the edges of the
earth and shake the wicked out of it?
The earth is changed as clay is by a seal.
Its heel stands out like
the folds of the garment.
Light is withheld from the wicked and the
arm raised and the violence is broken.
Have you traveled to the sources of the
sea or walked in the depths of the ocean?
Have the gates of death
been revealed to you?
Have you seen the gates of darkness?
Have you comprehended
the extent of the earth?
Tell me if you know all of this.
And Job's response later on in
Job chapter 40 was basically this.
I am insignificant.
How can I answer you?
I place my hand over my mouth.
It's this idea of understanding that God
is our creator and in questioning that.
We become like Job, where we really have
no authority or no place to question God.
And that's really the starting point.
God created, He says, the
heavens and the earth.
And if we look at this a little
bit deeper, it's basically
the skies and the land.
And if you really even take verse
1, in a way, this verse 1 summarizes
everything He's getting ready to describe.
He's getting ready to describe
everything after He says He
created the heavens and the earth.
And really, when we look at verse
2, Verse 2 is kind of what we
would call pre creation, right?
This is before everything was created.
So it was formless, it was emptied,
it was covered in darkness.
It was waste and void.
And at this point, Earth
had no purpose and order.
And when we think about darkness, and
most of the times throughout the Bible,
darkness is attributed to evil, right?
Um, and that is obviously what
God is changing in this void
and wasteless land and place.
And what I love about this, it says in
the back part of verse 2, it says that
God was present over the waters of the
earth and over the surface of the waters.
God was still present, ready to bring
order so that life could flourish.
I want you to think
about this for a minute.
And this is kind of just thinking
outside of the box here a little bit.
Do you know that God is waiting?
He's waiting in your life, on
the surface of your life, waiting
to bring order to your life.
He's hovering over your life, ready so
that you, you and your life can flourish.
I think that picture is so beautiful that
God created and He started that way and
He still believes that same thing in us.
And so we see that, right?
At the beginning, God transforms
chaos into creation, starting
with those first two verses.
But then we're going to move on to
the next several verses, 3 through 13.
And we're going to talk about
the first three days of creation.
The first three days of creation, each
of them begins with the phrase God said.
And one of the things that I
think is so beautiful is that
God breathed and life came to be.
The earth began to form because God spoke.
And that's how things came together.
And I think when we begin to look at
that, that's way outside of our life.
Because I'll just tell you this, I
wake up every morning and I speak, but
things don't form other than words.
Anybody else?
I mean, because if things could work that
way, then I would work that way, and I
would just begin to talk about things.
And the first thing I would speak
is a Porsche into existence, and my
lawn to be mowed, and a couple of
other issues in life to be fixed.
I would speak all day if that would work.
But one of the interesting things, when
we look at this word creation, I want
to kind of go back to this for a minute.
When we look at this word creation,
in the Bible, that word creation, In
its true form was only attributed to
God, which means this, anything that we
quote unquote create, we really don't
create, we build from God's creation.
So I want you to think
about that for a minute.
God is the only one that can create.
We're the only ones that can
build out of God's creation.
And at times we don't understand
that idea of the difference
between creation and building.
But we're going to look at
Day 1, right, verses 3 5.
So 3 5 says this thing, God said, let
there be light, and there was light,
and God saw the light, and it was good.
And God separated the light from
the darkness, called the light day,
and the darkness he called night,
and there was evening, and there
was morning, and that was Day 1.
So many believe this is when
God began to establish time, and
order time, so day and night.
And so when we look at this, the
question is, how could there be light?
If there wasn't even lightbearers
until day four, anybody know how
there could be light if there wasn't
any lightbearers until day four?
Anybody?
He was the light.
In the beginning, God was the light,
and still is the light in our lives.
Most of us think of visual light, and
maybe that's what it was, maybe it
was this light that we see today, but
I believe that when we're thinking
about this, is God began to separate
that darkness, and he began to bring
his presence, his light, into it.
And so it came from God Himself.
And so without natural light, and you guys
probably know this if you study enough,
without light, our lives cannot exist.
At some point, we will physically die.
And without God's light, we
will spiritually die as well.
And so in the beginning,
light was so important.
And it's really, God's
And so that's why He
separated darkness from light.
And He began to bring
good into this creation.
Right?
And he says it was good.
So then we have day two, right?
Verses six through eight.
It says, Then God said, Let there
be an expanse between the water,
separating the water from water.
So God made the expanse separated, and
the water under the expanse from the
water above the expanse, and it was so.
And God called the expanse
sky and evening came, and then
morning, and then the second day.
And so when we look at this, He
began to now separate those waters.
And if you looked at the video at all
and you saw this, this idea between
the water above and the water below,
God began to separate those things.
Most believe that sky would be probably
the rain that He's holding back.
Um, and many even would say this is the
water He's holding back before Noah.
And we'll learn about Noah later
on before those floods came.
And so Moses would have been also
leading people, um, out of Egypt.
Going back to kind of the reason
why Moses would write this.
And they would be dealing with
this idea behind people who were
influenced by the myths of the
heavens and the earth and the seas.
Um, and Moses is trying to
remind the people that God is
the one that controls the seas.
He controls the water above
and the water below, right?
The sky.
Um, and so he's trying to
help them avoid worshiping the
creation rather than the creator.
And so, in this instance,
God is trying to do a lot.
Um, So then we move on.
I think there's still
more here as we go on.
So then he goes on.
Then God said, Let the
earth produce vegetation.
And, uh, wait, I didn't,
I moved on way too far.
Here we go.
So that was the second day.
So the third day, um, did I jump ahead?
I may have jumped.
No, I didn't.
So third day, here we go.
Then God said, Let the water under
the sky be gathered into one place.
This is the third day.
And let the dry land appear.
This is that moment where there was
only water on earth until God began
to move earth above and began to have
this place of solid ground, right?
And he says he called this dry land
earth and he gathered the water and
he called it seas and now God saw that
it was good and he said let the earth
produce vegetation, seed bearing plants,
fruit trees, and earth bearing fruit.
With its seed according to its own
kind, and it was so, and the earth
produced vegetation, seed bearing plants
according to the kinds of the trees,
bearing fruit with its seed according
to the kinds, and God saw that it
was good, and the evening came, and
morning came, and the third day, right?
And so he creates this habitation, this
vegetation to now bring about life, right?
To bring about life, an ability to be
able to sustain, because life would
not have been able to sustain just on
water, but it had to have So, when we
look at this summary of these first
three days, God created time, right, He
created evening and day, He created the
sky or the heavens, right, He separated
the waters, He created the seas, and
then He created land, and they all had
a form, right, they all had a form.
Um, and I begin to think about this.
This is really the beginning
of God's greatest creation.
So he breaks it into three days and he
creates these form and then he begins to
fill all of these things that he created.
And I stopped in the midst of writing
this message to just begin to picture all
that God created in three days and how
magnificent that is and how easy it is
for us to forget that on a daily basis.
Does anybody ever think about...
You know, God's separating the waters, and
He's told the waters to only come so far.
Anybody ever think about that?
Like, the waters can't come any further.
Have you ever thought about that,
the idea that we actually have land
to live on, and that God is the one
that brought that up out of the water?
Did we ever think about that everything
in creation was literally designed
for us, and we're getting ready
to talk more and more about that.
Like, I think at times we
miss the awe of even existing.
On Earth.
Like, it's just, I just expect to wake up
and have everything, the sun to come up,
and the, you know, day to happen, and life
to work, and to be able to breathe, but I
tend to miss the awe of what God has done.
And so, now let's see how God begins
to fill these first three days, right?
So He fills the Earth, and
He begins to take all of the
creation, um, from that point.
So let's look at day four.
So, verses 14 through 19.
It says, Then God said, Let there be
lights in the expanse of the sky to
separate the day from the night, and
they will serve as signs for the season
and for the days and for the years.
And there will be lights in the expanse
of the sky to provide light on earth.
And it was so.
And God made two great lights, the
greater light to rule over the day
and the lesser light to rule over
the night, as well as the stars.
And God placed them in the expanse of
the sky to provide light on the earth.
To rule the day and the night,
to separate light from darkness.
And God saw that it was good, and
evening came and morning came.
And then it was the fourth day.
So now we begin to see
some really cool things.
And why I say that they're cool
things, when we think about these
lights that God placed in the sky.
The greater light, which is the sun, and
the lesser light, which would be the moon.
And then he mentions the stars
kind of like as a side note.
But has anybody ever studied
about stars and galaxies?
Season blow your mind.
They will blow your mind at how
magnificent they are and how
many of 'em they are and how much
we don't know about them yet.
God just kind of us as a little
side note, and the stars like, eh,
I just kind of threw those up there.
But they're such an amazing part of
our creation, and he says that they
begin to have this light and I begin to
think, where did this light come from?
God began to take the light that he had.
He began to place it.
In the sky, and they separated again
the day and the night, and we begin to
think about, he says he's separating
more and more darkness, he's bringing
more and more of his life into creation.
And these lights, if you go back to
Moses, Moses is writing that these
lights were created by God for us.
That Moses would have been leading
people that had been around other
people who worshipped the sun and
the moon and the stars as God.
And so Moses is reminding them that
they are created by God and for
a purpose, but they are not meant
to be worshipped, that God is the
only one that's to be worshipped.
Right?
And you see that now day one and four
are connected because of the light
in day one and the light in day four.
And then we look at day five, and I know
I'm going through this pretty quickly.
Um, so in day five, so we have verses
20 through 23, it says, Then God
said, Let the water swarm with living
creatures and let the birds fly above.
The earth across the expanse of the sky.
So God created the large sea creatures
and every living creature that moved and
swarmed in the water according to their
kinds and he also created every winged
creature according to its kind and God
saw that it was good and God blessed them.
This is the first time you'll see
the word blessed in the Bible.
God blessed them and what came after?
Be fruitful and multiply and
fill these waters of the sea.
And let the birds multiply on earth.
Evening came, and then morning,
and then the fifth day.
This is where we begin to
start seeing living creatures.
He's working towards a greater plan.
He's creating all these things not
to just exist in and of themselves,
but to be there for a purpose.
And the first purpose was...
The, the ones that would
fill the air and the water.
If you'll remember, day two was
the creation of the expanse, right?
Dividing the expanse,
the sky and the waters.
And now he filled it with these
different creatures, right?
In the water and in the earth.
And, uh, when we think about these
creatures, we think about them as
obviously amazing that God created them.
But they still, God wasn't done.
It says he blessed them.
Which, again, is the first time that
we see this, and He's blessed them
to reproduce and use the nourishment
of the earth to do that, and to
be able to live there and do that.
Um, but God's really leading up to this
last day, and this is really, I've been
trying to get us there, understanding
God's magnitude here, but really,
God's creating every single one of
these things, ultimately, for day six.
And it's not the first part of day six,
but we're going to still read this.
So in verses 24 through 31, it says,
then God said, let the earth produce
living creatures according to their
kinds, live livestock and creatures
that crawl and the wildlife of the
earth according to their kinds.
And it was so.
And so God made the wildlife of
the earth according to their kind.
The livestock according to their
kinds, and all the creatures that
crawl on the ground according to their
kinds, and God saw that it was good.
As you guys continue to see that theme,
that God saw that it was good, right?
That he made things that were good.
But we're getting ready to see
something that was not just
good, but it was really good.
And it says this, Then God
said, let us make man in our own
image, according to our likeness.
And they will rule the fish of the seas
and the birds of the sky and the livestock
and the whole earth and the creatures
that saw, uh, that crawl on the earth.
So God created man in his own image
and he created him in the image of God.
And he created them male and female
and God blessed them and God said to
them, be fruitful and multiply, fill
the earth and subdue it, rule the fish
of the sea, the birds of the sky, and
every creature that crawls on the earth.
And God also said, look,
I have given you every...
seed bearing plant on the surface
of the entire earth and every
tree whose fruit contains seed.
This will be food for you and for
all the wildlife of the earth, for
every bird of the sky and for every
creature that crawls in the earth and
everything having breath of life in it.
And I have given every green plant for
food and it was so, and God saw all
that he had made and it was very good.
Indeed, an evening came and then
morning and the sixth day we look
at this last day as one of the most
critical sense a last days before
rest right before God was done and he
rested and we see the creatures, right?
The creatures that he created and
those things were good, but those
were not God's greatest creation.
It was part of the process, but
it was not his greatest creation.
Creating mankind in his image was God's.
His final goal, his goal was
to create people that would
reflect the image of God.
And that was at the beginning of creation.
And that is still today that when
you were created, because here's
the thing, everybody was born.
I just, I just tell you, everybody
was born in this room and you were
created in the image of God to reflect.
God to the world and to
rule over creation, right?
Unlike animals who were also formed
from the ground like the people
were in this, they were given
provisions just like humans were.
They were blessed to be
fruitful and multiply.
But humans were different because they
had the likeness or the image of God.
And so whenever we think about the
word image, what does that mean?
So when we think about image, we
think about personality of God,
the nature of God, the capacity
of moral decision like God.
And many would even say this, the
reflection of God's spiritual nature.
And some would say this question,
so do we look physically like God?
Well, ultimately, God is a spirit.
So I would say to look like a spirit, no
we don't, but we internally look like God.
We have the capacities of
God's reflection, of His image.
Um, and so we're image bearers of God.
And, and I started thinking about this.
If you go back to, because he makes
this statement, and again I don't have
a ton of time to dive deep into it.
But he says, let's make man in our image.
And that always is the question.
What does it mean by our image?
Well, if you go to the second chapter, or
second verse, you'll see that the Spirit
of God was hovering over the waters.
We have the Spirit.
Well, in verse one, we have God created...
The heavens and the earth.
So we have God, but where
is maybe Jesus in this?
Because most people would say, hey,
Jesus was there in the beginning.
And as you get into the New
Testament, you'll hear this, that
Jesus was there in the beginning.
And the answer is, it's in this where.
Let us, let us make man in
our image, in our likeness.
And so Jesus was there in the beginning.
This is where we begin to see the,
Trinity is what we talk about, or
all aspects of who God is, they
are all God, um, and a different
representative of God, and that's,
again, another story of another thing.
But when I think about this idea
that God has given us the ability
to reflect His image to the world.
I think that is the key to this text,
that Moses, as he's writing this,
he's saying, Hey, I'm writing this
so that you know who created you.
It was God.
It wasn't the moon god or the sun god or,
you know, it wasn't anybody in, you know,
when you think about the seas, a lot of
times they would even worship some crazy
creatures from the sea that were massive.
Um, He says don't worship them, worship
the one true God who created everything
that you think about to worship.
He created every one of those things.
So He created you, and He created
me, He created everything that
we see and we exist around, but
He created us for a purpose.
And when we look at this text, we're
image bearers of God, and we have a
responsibility based upon this text.
Number one, this is gonna
be fun to you, to reproduce.
And I think this church does
a great job of reproducing.
Maybe you don't need to be...
Cheered on about that one.
But he says to reproduce life.
And I really want to challenge
you in this statement.
Hear me out on this.
I think many of us think of this idea,
he wants us to reproduce physically.
I believe in this text he's
also talking about spiritually.
That means this, that as we reproduce
spiritually, as we are image bearers of
Christ to the world, and other people come
to know Christ because of you actually
taking an image of God and sharing it
with the world, that you're reproducing.
Anybody ever see that point in this text?
I never saw that point.
Before studying this text, I believe he's
saying be reproducers of the image of God,
physically, yes, but more so spiritually.
And I believe if you get into the
New Testament, that is the call on
our lives to be images of Christ
to the world so that other people
can come to faith in Christ.
Amen?
I think that's so cool that
in creation it started there.
And then we see this
thing called evangelism.
Goin and tellin people, makin disciples,
and we think it's something new.
It's actually an Old Testament thing.
It's a creation thing.
And, uh, I just, that's
just a challenge to you.
The other thing he said, for image
bearers of Christ, is to have
dominion over the world in creation.
And this is something, again, he even said
that we can have dominion over darkness.
And so we are facing an enemy daily.
Every one of us is facing an enemy daily.
And we can know from this text
that we are meant to have dominion.
To be able to rule over.
There's nothing that can rule over us.
God has given us that.
Right?
And I think that's a beautiful
picture to understand.
That we are meant to reproduce
physically and spiritually.
But to also have dominion
over all of creation.
Even darkness and evil.
And he even gives us, this is what I love.
He even gives us the food.
To have strength, because I'm telling
you this, if I did not have food,
I would not have the strength to
reproduce and to go out and be the
image bearer of Christ, uh, and God to
the world, and so I'm thankful that he
gave us food as he talks about here.
But here's some thoughts to consider
as we kind of finish up on this.
And so you want to know,
man, that was quick.
Well, in chapter two, we're going to kind
of go back to a little bit of the image
of God and creation of man, because he
kind of expands it a little bit more.
We'll dive into that a little bit
deeper, but here's some thoughts
to consider today for you to take
home from this first chapter.
Number one, when God formed us, He
formed us as like a potter with clay.
And I would think about this,
He created a work of art.
And I'll just tell you
this, we weren't a mistake.
If you're sitting in this room and
you're thinking, God made a mistake.
He should have thrown me out.
Um, He didn't.
God doesn't make mistakes.
God is perfect and God created you.
And it says even in Jeremiah that He
knows us before we were even born.
He knew us when we were
knitted in our mother's womb.
And then also, because God made us, we
are wholly dependent upon Him as creator.
What do you mean by that?
I'll just tell you this.
If you've taken a breath at any
point during this message, and if you
haven't, you're probably blue in the
face and you're about to pass out.
But if you took a breath,
God provided that for you.
If you have any sort of, like, house
or car, God provided the resources
that came out of the earth to
build those things that you have.
If you have strength in your body to
move and to function, it's because
of the food that is provided from the
ground of the earth that God created.
So because God made us, and it
goes back to this, if you truly
believe God made you, Then we are
dependent upon God to provide it.
You may say, no, Walmart provides my food.
Just wait, whenever the pandemic happened,
a lot of times Walmart was out of stuff.
We begin to kind of freak out.
We may have actually prayed to
God to provide some food, right?
And so we don't really
understand our need for God.
It's those moments where kids think
that food does just grow, like
bread just literally comes up out
of the ground, like literal bread.
I mean, ask us.
They probably think that,
uh, but it doesn't, right?
God created all those resources there.
The la a couple other things here.
Because He created us, we have
full access, or we can have full
access to God through Jesus.
And I love that, because God's original
design was to have a relationship with
man, and His final design is for us to
have a relationship with man personally.
And then also, God didn't just say
that He was creating us that was good.
He said it was very good.
And we need to remember that we are God's
greatest creation, and we are very good.
I want to leave you with a verse here
before we kind of talk about what we
can take home just as a, uh, hopefully
an application point to your life.
But Revelation 4, 11 says this,
Our Lord and God You are worthy to
receive glory and honor and power
because you have created all things.
And by your will, they
exist and were created.
I believe one of the last things
that we, we gain from understanding
that God created us, is that
he is worthy of our worship.
What does that mean to worship God?
It is literally meaning to,
to lay out flat on our face.
and be wholly dependent upon Him.
And anything else is sub part.
Anything else is sub part to what God
deserves for creating us and providing
every single thing that we have.
So, although we covered a lot of text
in a short amount of time, and yes we
glazed over certain things, I think God
cares more about transformation than
information, which means this, we could
have taken every verse and dove deeper.
And asks a lot of different questions,
and here's my challenge to you.
If you have them, ask them, but also if
you have them, seek them on your own.
I can give you some resources and
some places to seek a little bit
deeper than what we went to today.
But God cares more about
transformation than information.
I've said this, wisdom is
actually application of knowledge,
of what we've gained today.
And so what I will challenge
you with today is, number one,
do you know who created you?
Do you believe?
In the Word of God and
that God created you.
Number two, do you believe
what you were created for?
To be image bearers to the world.
To, to what I would say is to,
to share that image with others.
Right?
The spiritual nature of
God's character with others.
Right?
Is knowing God created you enough
for you to go out and act on it.
Right?
Action.
Not just knowledge, but action.
And, and, and I think that's a
great question for all of us.
Because who's the last person
that said to you, Man, I really
see something different in you.
What is it?
Has anybody had that happen recently?
Is somebody saying, You handled
that situation differently.
You acted differently.
You treated me differently.
There's something
different about your life.
And you can begin to say, It's probably
because I'm an image bearer just like you.
And I chose to reflect God to the world.
And then you want to be able
to share with them, how can you
reflect God to the world, right?
How can you reflect God to the world?
And I think that's a
challenge for all of us.
That we are God's greatest creation
to reflect Him to the world.
So here's what I'm going to do,
this is what we do for invitation.
We take some time to pray, and I'll
lead you through some thoughts.
And it's just an opportunity for
each one of us to go, I didn't
just hear a lot of verses today.
And a lot of speaking, I actually get
the opportunity to put it into my heart
to go from here to here and say, Hey,
how can I take something from today
and begin to live it out in my life.
So I'm going to pray for us and then
we're just going to continue praying.
I'm just going to lead you to some
things that you could pray right where
you're sitting and we'll take some time
to pray in each one of those moments.
So Lord Jesus, we thank you so much Lord
for today, even though there's so much.
In chapter one of Genesis, Lord, we
understand that everything that happened
in the book of Genesis was pointing to
creating us, your greatest creation.
And God, you created us because you
desired to have a personal relationship
with us, for us to experience
more and more of you, and then to
reflect that to everyone around us.
God, you created us to have dominion
over the world, and to over all the
enemies and the darkness that we face
in our lives, and Lord, you created
us for those things, and I think one
of the coolest things, Lord, is that
you created us because you loved us.
You created us because you desire
to know us personally, and a God
that creates someone like that is
a God worth serving, a God worth
worshiping, one who created every
single thing that we have for our good.
For us to be able to experience.
So Lord, I pray that as we take time
today to consider what we've learned, and
how this applies to our life, Lord, will
you speak to our hearts and our minds?
Will you help us turn to you
if we haven't turned to you?
Will you help us repent of sins,
Lord, if that's what's hindering us?
Lord, will you help us leave here
changed because of what you'll
do in our hearts and lives?
And so Lord, we pray this
in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So as you're sitting there,
this is really where...
I want to just challenge
you to pray a few things.
I'm going to lead you through one of
those things to pray about, and I'm going
to lead you through one more after that.
So the first thing, I just really want
you to sit there and ask the Lord.
I want you to ask the Lord this question.
To reveal whether you truly
believe that God created you.
That's the first thing.
Ask God, do I truly believe
that you created me?
So I just want you to start right there.
Just asking God to let him reveal
to you whether you have a lack
of faith, or whether you truly
believe that God created you.
So just take a minute there to pray.
Alright, the next thing I want you
to ask God is, Lord, do I truly
believe you created me for a purpose?
I just ask that God that right now.
Lord, do I truly believe that you created
me to do something specific in my life?
Now, based upon asking the Lord this
question and what you sense the Lord
responding to you, you may have a
couple of ways that you can respond.
And this is the next thing
that I want you to lead.
Lead you to just pray to God.
The first is, is if you've struggled
to, to wonder if God truly created you,
or if you've struggled to wonder if God
truly created you for a purpose, maybe
your prayer is, God help my unbelief.
Help my unbelief.
And help me overcome that.
To truly believe that you created me,
and that you created me for a purpose.
Maybe that's what you need to pray.
For others, maybe the response was, yes,
you truly believe that God created you,
and that God created you for a purpose.
And here is what I challenge you to pray.
God help me fulfill that purpose.
I
want to challenge you with just this
statement before we stand in worship.
Ever since the fall of creation,
so we haven't gotten there yet, but
ever since the fall of creation,
people all over the world.
People have been waiting
for a touch of God.
All over the world, they've
been waiting on a touch of God.
Waiting on lightbearers to
help them see their purpose
and experience their creator.
People are waiting.
Your original creation
of why you were born.
Are you ready to be a
lightbearer to the world?
Are you ready to be a lightbearer
to your employees, your friends,
your family, your neighbors?
You name it, your coworkers,
your kids' soccer coach.
Are you ready to be a library?
'cause God has called you to that.
And I would say this, if you have
given your life to Jesus, that is
your responsibility and your calling.
And it is fulfilling when
you fulfill, when you do it.
But when you do not walk in that calling,
you'll always feel a disconnect from God's
original and true design of your life.
So I challenge you, those who have given
your life to Jesus, to go, live, inspire.
I say that every week.
Go, live, inspire.
Be the light to those around you of
who God is and why He created us.
But I really want to challenge those who
have never given their lives to Jesus.
If you're in this room, you've
never given your life to Jesus.
You aren't a lightbearer because you
have not received Jesus into your
life to transform your life and to
be able to be bold for who Jesus is.
I challenge you now to
give your life to Jesus.
How do we give our lives to Jesus?
We have met our needs for Him.
Our need for Jesus, we admit it.
We repent of our sins and we
turn away from things that are
distracting us from our calling.
And we say yes to Jesus.
And we ask God to come into
our lives and transform us.
So if that is you today, you
can pray that in your seat.
You can say, God, I need you.
God, I turn from my sins.
And God, I invite you into my life.
And if you've done that
today, we celebrate with you.
We celebrate with you and we want
to continue to celebrate with you.
And help you know how to follow Jesus.
So during this time that we worship,
we're going to stand and worship Him.
I'm going to stand in the back, and
I stand in the back to do two things.
Number one, pray with you if you have any.
Number two, to be able to talk to
you about how to come to know Jesus.
To celebrate with those who have
given their lives to Jesus, or made
a new commitment today in Jesus.
So Lord Jesus, we pray
that God we continue.
To do exactly what we were created for,
and Lord, while we were placed on this
earth with such amazing creations, to
be lightbearers to the world, Lord,
lead us and guide us to follow you all
the days of our lives, and help others
come to know you because of how we live.
We pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Let's stand and let's, let's worship.